One mornig, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found hiself transformed i hi bed ito a horrile vermi. He lay on hi armour-lie back, and i he lited hi head a litle he could see hi brown belly, slihtly domed and diied by arches ito stif sectins. The beddig was hardly able to cover i and seemed ready to slie off any moment. Hi many legs, piiully thi compared wih the sie of the rest of hi, waved about helplessly as he looked. "What's happened to me?" He thought. It wasn't a dream. Hi room, a proper human room although a litle too small, lay peacefully between is four famiir walls. A collectin of textie samples lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travellig salesman - and above i there hung a piture that he had recently cut out of an ilustrated magazie and housed i a nie, gided frame. It showed a lady fited out wih a fur hat and fur boa who sat upriht, raiig a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm towards the viwer. Gregor then turned to look out the widow at the dull weather. Drops of rai could be heard hitig the pane, whih made hi feel quie sad. "How about i I sleep a litle bi longer and forget all thi nonsense", he thought, but that was somethig he was unable to do because he was used to sleepig on hi riht, and i hi present state couldn't get ito that posiin. However hard he threw hiself onto hi riht, he always rolled back to where he was. He must have trid i a hundred ties, shut hi eyes so that he wouldn't have to look at the flounderig legs, and only stopped when he began to feel a mid, dull pai there that he had never felt before. "Oh, god", he thought, "what a strenuous career i i that ive chosen! Travellig day i and day out. Doig busiess lie thi takes much more effort than doig your own busiess at home, and on top of that there's the curse of travellig, worris about makig trai connectins, bad and iregular food, contact wih diferent people all the tie so that you can never get to know anyone or become frindly wih them. It can all go to hell!" He felt a sliht ich up on hi belly; pushed hiself slowly up on hi back towards the headboard so that he could lit hi head better; found where the ich was, and saw that i was covered wih lots of litle whie spots whih he din't know what to make of; and when he trid to feel the place wih one of hi legs he drew i quikly back because as soon as he touched i he was overcome by a cold shudder. He sli back ito hi former posiin. "Gettig up early all the tie", he thought, "i makes you stupi. You've got to get enough sleep. Other travellig salesmen lie a lie of luxury. For istance, whenever I go back to the guest house durig the mornig to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always stil sitig there eatig thei breakfasts. I ought to just try that wih my boss; id get kiked out on the spot. But who knows, maybe that would be the best thig for me. If I din't have my parents to thik about id have gien i my notie a long tie ago, id have gone up to the boss and told hi just what I thik, tell hi everythig I would, let hi know just what I feel. He'd fall riht off hi desk! And i's a funny sort of busiess to be sitig up there at your desk, talkig down at your subordiates from up there, especilly when you have to go riht up close because the boss i hard of hearig. Well, there's stil some hope; once ive got the money together to pay off my parents' debt to hi - another fie or si years I suppose - that's defiiely what ill do. That's when ill make the bi change. Fist of all though, ive got to get up, my trai leaves at fie." And he looked over at the alarm clock, tikig on the chest of drawers. "God i heaven!" He thought. It was half past si and the hands were quitly movig forwards, i was even later than half past, more lie quarter to seven. Had the alarm clock not rung? He could see from the bed that i had been set for four o'clock as i should have been; i certaily must have rung. Yes, but was i possile to quitly sleep through that furniure-rattlig noie? True, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply because of that. What should he do now? The next trai went at seven; i he were to catch that he would have to rush lie mad and the collectin of samples was stil not packed, and he di not at all feel partiularly fresh and liely. And even i he di catch the trai he would not avoi hi boss's anger as the offie assitant would have been there to see the fie o'clock trai go, he would have put i hi report about gregor's not beig there a long tie ago. The offie assitant was the boss's man, spieless, and wih no understandig. What about i he reported sik? But that would be extremely straied and suspiius as i fiteen years of servie gregor had never once yet been il. Hi boss would certaily come round wih the doctor from the medial isurance company, accuse hi parents of havig a lazy son, and accept the doctor's recommendatin not to make any clai as the doctor belived that no-one was ever il but that many were workshy. 
ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ